Price Action Trading Strategies for Beginners

It is nothing but technical analysis used for identifying the price pattern where institution players have a huge impact.

In basics of stock market, we would have traded using support and resistance. In price action trading we use supply and demand zone for trading.

Supply and Demand Strategy or Support and Resistance Strategy.

What is a Supply and Demand Zone?

Where huge buy or accumulation takes place and the impact is made by institutional players, and those price zones are called as demand zones.

Huge sell or distribution carried out by institutional players on some price range and those range are called as supply zone.

Stock Market for beginners guide: (Basics of Stock)
Long- buy
Short- sell
Bulls -buyers
Bears -sellers
Bullish -if the market is up, it is said to be bullish (uptrend).
Bearish- if the market is down, it’s said to be bearish.
Bearish Candlestick -a candlestick that has opened higher and closed lower is said to be bearish.
Bullish Candlestick- a candlestick that has opened lower and closed higher is said to be a bullish candlestick.
Risk- Reward Ratio if you risk INR 50 in a trade to make INR 150 then your risk: reward is 1:3 which simply means you made 3 times more than your risked. This is an example of risk: reward ratio.
What is price action Trading?
When traders make trading decisions based on repeated price patterns that once formed in past, it indicates to the trader what direction the market is most likely to move.
What Tools Price action trading use?
Price action trading uses tools like charts patterns, candlestick patterns,  trend lines, price bands, market swing structure like upswings and downswings, support and resistance levels, consolidations, Fibonacci retracement levels, pivots etc.
Why Price Action Trading?
• Price action represents collective human behaviour.
• Price action gives structure to the forex market.
• Price Action helps to reduce noise done by novice traders.
When should you trade?
• Trading with the trend
• Trading with Price Action Using reliable chart patterns and candlestick patterns.
• Trading using Support and resistance levels.
• Waiting patiently for the right trade setups and not chasing trades.

What is a trend?
When price is moving up, it’s called an uptrend.
Uptrend, prices will be making increasing higher highs and higher lows until a higher low gets intercepted.

When price is moving down, it’s called downtrend.
downtrend, prices will be making decreasing lower lows and lower highs until a lower low gets intercepted.
When price is moving sideways, it’s called and sideways trend.

Ranging market or sideways trend , will see price moving in a range between a support and resistance.
Different types of Chart ?
1.Trend Chart
Helps you identify the predominant trend you should be looking to trade with.
2.Signal Chart
It provides the trading signals that tell you when to look for buying and selling opportunities based on the trading methodology you use.
3.Time Chart
Helps you time exactly when you should enter and exit a trade.
Time Chart Characteristics
• 1-minute signal chart = Tick timing chart
• 5-minute signal chart = 1-minute timing chart
• 15- to 30-minute signal chart = 5-minute timing chart
• 1-hour signal chart = 15-minute timing chart
• 1-day signal chart = 1-hour timing chart
• 1-week signal chart = 1-day timing chart
• 1-month signal chart = 1-week timing chart

Why multiple time frames?
• For getting better trade entries
• For reducing stop loss distance and having better risk : reward ratio

What is a candle sticks?

A candlestick is a type of price chart used in technical analysis that displays the high, low, open, and closing prices of a security for a specific period.

What is a candle stick pattern ?
Candlestick patterns, which are technical trading tools, have been used for centuries to predict price direction
Candle Stick Pattern

Three Line Strike
The bullish three lines strike reversal pattern carves out three black candles within a downtrend. Each bar posts a lower low and closes near the intrabar low. The fourth bar opens even lower but reverses in a wide-range outside bar that closes above the high of the first candle in the series. The opening print also marks the low of the fourth bar. According to Bulkowski, this reversal predicts higher prices with an 83% accuracy rate.


Evening Stars

The bearish evening star reversal pattern starts with a tall white bar that carries an uptrend to a new high. The market gaps higher on the next bar, but fresh buyers fail to appear, yielding a narrow range candlestick. A gap down on the third bar completes the pattern, which predicts that the decline will continue to even lower lows, perhaps triggering a broader-scale downtrend. According to Bulkowski, this pattern predicts lower prices with a 72% accuracy rate.


===============
This scanners is used to scan stock which are in uptrend. So we can search for fresh buy zones and trade all pull back.
https://chartink.com/screener/novice-hedge-up-trend
This scanners is used to scan stock which are in downtrend. So we can search for fresh sell zones and trade all pull back.
https://chartink.com/screener/novice-hedge-down-trend-1
